basic Bible teachings are wonderful. Usually it's the fundamental doctrines of the Bible,
basic teachings that draw people to the truth. However, learning basic Bible teachings
is just the beginning of knowledge about Jehovah.
At Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 1, the Apostle Paul exhorts all students of God's word to
progress beyond basic teachings. This is what is stated at Hebrews 6-1. Therefore, now that we
have moved beyond the primary doctrine about the Christ, let us press on to maturity. Isn't that
what we want to achieve with our Bible students to help them move beyond the primary doctrine and
progress to Christian maturity? It comes about in degrees as students acquire an increased level
of knowledge and appreciation for the truth. Bible students must learn to love God and his standards
and appreciate that all of his ways and requirements are expressions of his love for us.
When Bible students experience the good that comes from obeying Jehovah and following his ways,
their love for him will deepen. As you watch the following video,
please note how a sister helps her student to make progress toward maturity.
Mrs. C. Water was doing great. We were already on lesson 10.
I really hope she comes to a meeting soon. We talked about Hebrews 10, 24, and 25,
and watched the video. Did I miss something? I guess I did. I was too focused on our progress with
the lessons. Instead of her progress and what she needed, Mr. C. Water said, going to meetings with
dishonor the family. He wanted her to quit the study. She didn't want to quit, but whenever she
tried to talk about it, they argued. We showed her where to look for help.
And may time during our studies to talk about it more, we all pray for Jehovah to bless her
efforts. We did our best to share the good news of peace, and Jehovah did the rest.
As we saw, the student took an important step toward Christian maturity when she began to attend
meetings. As you study with your student lesson 7 to 11 of the Enjoy Life Forever book,
please be sure to highlight Jehovah's appealing qualities that are set forth in those lessons.
For example, lesson 7 of the Enjoy Life Forever book describes Jehovah's loving ways.
We want to help our students to understand that Jehovah really does love them as individuals,
and wants them to achieve everlasting life. The Apostle John highlights Jehovah's love at
1 John 4.9 by pointing out that Jehovah sent Jesus to earth to take our place in death,
and thus pay for our inherited sins and our personal sins. Yes, out of love,
Jehovah provided a way for us to enjoy an approved standing with him. This is one of Jehovah's
loving ways. Lesson 8 shows us how to become Jehovah's Friend. This is likely something that most
people have never even thought of. Can you imagine the privilege of becoming God's Friend?
Help your students to see how their obedience and exclusive devotion to Jehovah
pave the way to friendship with him. Proverbs chapter 3 verses 5 and 6 tells us specifically
what Jehovah wants us to do. Proverbs chapter 3 verses 5 and 6 says,
trust in Jehovah with all your heart, and do not rely on your own understanding.
In all your ways, take notice of him, and he will make your path straight.
We show our trust in Jehovah by doing what he tells us to do, and thereby we become his friends.
Jehovah takes good care of his friends, and he is always loyal to them.
Lesson 9 highlights the power of prayer. Teach your Bible students how to pray to Jehovah.
In addition to prayer, regular Bible reading is also necessary to make spiritual progress.
Psalm, the first Psalm, verses 2 and 3, encourages Bible reading. Let's look it up together.
That's Psalm, the first Psalm, and we're going to read verses 2 and 3.
It's speaking about a man of God who takes delight in God's word. It says,
but his delight is in the law of Jehovah, where the law of Jehovah is found in the Bible,
and it says, and he reads his law in an undertone day and night. He will be like a tree planted
by streams of water, a tree that produces fruit in its season, the foliage of which does not
wither, and everything he does will succeed. Yes, everything he does as a Christian,
leading a Christian life will succeed. Reading God's word and then putting it into practice brings
Jehovah's blessing. Now, if you have a student who feels limited in his learning ability,
perhaps due to a lack of education, please encourage him to go to Jehovah in prayer and persist
in asking him for help to understand his word. James chapter 1 and verse 5 assures us that
Jehovah is ready and willing to help those who keep on asking him for help. Lesson 10 gives this
direction. As soon as possible, invite Bible students to attend congregation meetings.
What your student hears and observes at Christian meetings can touch his heart and will help him to
progress. So when you show your student the video, what happens at a kingdom hall, that would be
a good time to warmly invite him to attend meetings. Also, be sure to invite a variety of
publishers to accompany you on the study. In that way, your student will get acquainted with
others in the congregation, and he will likely feel more at home when he attends our meetings.
Lesson 11. In this lesson, we are encouraged to teach our students how to do
personal study using JW.org and JW Library. Show your student how to use these tools.
If you feel a bit unsure about teaching someone to make use of their electronic device for research,
don't hesitate to ask for help from the congregation. There are many who will be delighted to assist you.
The blessings that we receive when we teach someone the truth is described by the Apostle John
at 3 John, verse 4, where it states, no greater joy do I have than this, that I should hear that
my children go on walking in the truth. Yes, John is speaking of his spiritual children.
That same joy can be ours. What has this symposium brought to our attention?
It has helped us to see how we can maintain our zeal for the preaching work.
It has instructed us to prepare well to share the truth with others.
It showed us how to take the initiative to give an informal witness,
to follow up on interest, and to help Bible students grow to maturity.
If we do the best we can in the ministry, whether people respond or not,
we will enjoy the peace that comes from knowing that we are pleasing Jehovah.
Hebrews 13, 15 and 16, tells us how to bring pleasure to Jehovah God,
and that's certainly something we want to do. That's Hebrews 13, 15 and 16. It reads,
through Him, that is through Jesus, let us always offer to God a sacrifice of praise,
that is the fruit of our lips, that make public declaration to His name.
Moreover, do not forget to do good and to share what you have with others,
for God is well pleased with such sacrifices. Your readiness to share the good news of peace with
others is just such a sacrifice, and you can rest assured that Jehovah is thoroughly pleased
with your loving and faithful service to Him.